# Class 1 Reading
 Layers of OSI and Wireshark

### The Layers of the OSI Model
[Reference](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/layers-of-osi-model/)

> What does OSI stand for?
   - Open Systems Interconnection. It's how information moves from one person to another - one device to another.

> List the 7 layers of the OSI model and what each one is responsible for:

**Hardware**
   1. Physical (cables, modem, repeater) - actual connection between device; information transmitted in bits from one node to the other.
   2. Data Link (NIC, MAC, bridge) - node to node message delivery; framing, addressing, error control, flow control.
   3. Network (routers and switches) - routing and addressing; this is like the ship pilot trying to move a load of packets from one port to another.

**Software**
   4. Transport (firewall; part of the OS; heart of the OSI model) - responsible for end to end delivery of a complete message; uses headers for segments and addresses the segments to the right port to make sure the appropriate processes receive the info.
   5. Session (gateway) - establish, maintain, terminate sessions of connection between sender and receiver; synchronize data transmission.
   6. Presentation (jpeg) - encryption and decryption, compression, and translation; file extensions might matter here
   7. Application (smtp) - handles the data, normally in a GUI

> Distinguish between the hardware layers and software layers. What does that mean?
   - The hardware layers are just that - physical elements that enable the connection between two devices. The software devices operate along the path created by the hardware; the software is what actually controls transmission and receipt of information.

> How can the OSI model be used in troubleshooting?
   - In a networking context, if a connection is failing, it's a good idea to work through the OSI layers to determine where the fault is coming from. Is it plugged in? Is the NIC functioning? Is the router on? Is the firewall preventing connection? Is there some kind of logical/IP conflict? Is the data corrupted? Is the relevant application installed and updated?

### What is Wireshark?
[Reference](https://www.comptia.org/content/articles/what-is-wireshark-and-how-to-use-it)

> What is Wireshark?
   - A tool that captures network packets and aids in their filtering, visualization, and evaluation.

> What is a packet?
   - A small piece of a larger message transmitted on a computer network.

> What 3 high-level things does Wireshark accomplish? How could these be used for nefarious purposes? For benevolent purposes?
   - Packet capture
   - Protocol analysis
   - Network troublshooting
   - These could be used to imitate devices on a network or eavesdrop on unencrypted information; or, the tool could be used to improve security and troubleshoot connectivity issues.