# Class 2 Reading
 Network Scanning with nmap
 [resource](https://www.varonis.com/blog/port-scanning-techniques/)

> What is a port? Describe it with an analogy that would help a family member understand.
   - A port is one of 65,000 logical destinations in the transport layer of the OSI model. It works like the big green sign on the highway that tells you about your intersection with another major road in that it's not quite the destination, and it's not quite an address, but you can use it to get where you're trying to go because different kinds of traffic (protocols) normally use different specific ports.

> What does a port scanner send to a port to check the current status?
   - A packet. The type of packet depends on the scan, but might be ICMP (is the target alive), ACK ('syn scan'), Full TCP connect (SYN, ACK), DNS request ('udp scan'), 

> When a port scanner sends a request to connect, what are the three possible responses? Describe them.
   - Open, closed, or filtered. Open and closed both send responses; filtered doesn't respond.

> What is the difference between TCP and UDP?
   - In short, TCP prioritizes integrity by using a handshake, and UDP prioritizes availability by sending a firehose of packets, some of which might not be delivered.

> List and described the ports used for the following:
>[resource](https://www.professormesser.com/network-plus/n10-008/n10-008-video/common-ports-n10-008/)
   - Telnet: 23
   - SSH: 22
   - DNS: 53
   - SMTP: 25
   - HTTP: 80
   - HTTPS: 443
   - RDP: 3389
   - Ping: trick question because ICMP is not really part of the transport layer in the OSI model