# Class 2 Reading

AWS Compute Abstractions

[Resource](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/architecture/compute-abstractions-on-aws-a-visual-story/)

> Explain the levels of abstraction in AWS to someone without a technical background.
   - They're basically levels of caring. In a business, Sales and Marketing have some overlap - that is, they both need to understand the product(s) and how best to highlight the strong points while obfuscating the weaknesses. Neither knows the product as well as Engineering. Conversely, Engineering might not know the customers as well as Sales but they have to have some idea about the use case for a given product. Engineering, though, is less concerned about product pricing or the specific identities of the customers than Sales. Each department maintains a different level of interest in different issues - that is, they have a different level of abstraction in the issues of increased/decrease importance to their day-to-day activity. 

   In AWS or a broader computational context - the computer user doesn't need to know exactly what a CPU or GPU or RAM is or does; they need to know that this is a box of electricity wherein they can do their cute little Excel charts. The sys admin (or AWS) needs a more granular understanding of servers, the domain, and 'back end' issues than the consumer, and does not need the same understanding of the specific applications being used nor their purpose nor the content other than to ensure the infrastructure is sufficient to support the use case.

> What are the control plane and data plane responsible for in container abstraction?
   - The control plane exposes the API and interfaces to define, deploy, and lifecycle containers - this is also called the container orchestration layer.
   - The data plane provides the capacity (processing and storage) so that the containers can actually run and connect to a network.

> Where does AWS Lambda fall in the layers of abstraction and what makes it so special?
   - It's a third layer that allows single function execution that allows the user to abstract away software dependencies and OS needs, instead leaving it to AWS to ensure the infrastructure is sufficient to execute the function (also called an event-driven model).

   [This image demonstrates AWS relative abstraction by service](https://d2908q01vomqb2.cloudfront.net/fc074d501302eb2b93e2554793fcaf50b3bf7291/2018/09/06/Abstraction5-1024x574.png)

