# Ops 201 Reading Reflections
 This file is our final 'reading' assignment for Ops 201 as we have ended the curriculum and begun our final project.

> What is this repo all about?
   - Well, this repo is all of the reading assignments I've received throughout the ops course - but this section (201) is about core help desk type tasks and some simple powershell functions.

> Why are you learning these skills?
   - They're fundamental to understanding intermediate curriculum that we'll receive in 301.

> What fundamental concepts did you learn in Ops 201?
   - Good reiteration of basic networking tasks and Windows Tier 1 troubleshooting.

> What was your favorite [Ops Challenge](https://github.com/subtropicalhorseback/opschallenges) assignment and why?
   - I *really* enjoyed making [Search and Destroy(SaD.sh)](https://github.com/subtropicalhorseback/opschallenges/blob/main/04_SaD.sh). While basic, it is both actually coherently written and could be helpful/practical. I was proud of how interactive it is while still being a straightforward little shell script.

> How can these examples of shell scripting be applied to the workplace?
   - I think there is a lot of room for task automation and workload reduction. There are several applications for shell scripts for data analyst or data scientist roles, for example, but I don't necessarily think of analysts as a "techy" group of people who are aware of shell scripts or able to author scripts to satisfy their own requirements.

> What scripts would you continue to improve if you had the time?
   - I tried really hard during Ops201 to set up a series of Ubuntu crontabs that would 1) turn on a specific virtual machine, 2) force updates and reboot on the machine, 3) turn the machine back off, 4) write all that activity cleanly in a weekly log, and 5) dump the weekly log into a running log every Sunday night. I could never quite get the permissions or timing to work out, and then I gave up because I got busy. I think it's a useful idea, and I'd like to come back to it later.

> What aspect of your shell scripting skillset do you hope to improve next?
   - Script language vocabulary, for sure. Syntax of a command is easy enough to look up, but sometimes it's hard to figure out how to use a command if you don't even know it exists.
